it's actually really simple to grow on
Instagram it's time to buckle up if you
clicked on this video it's because you
want to learn the complete guide to
growing on Instagram in 2025 and I'm
about to show you the exact three-step
formula for growing on Instagram now
today's episode is going to be for
beginner to intermediate level
instagrammers if you're someone who has
already surpassed let's say 50,000
followers and you have a good idea of
how to grow your growth has been pretty
consistent then you probably don't need
to listen to today's episode but I would
still encourage you to stick around
because there are going to be some
strategies that I share towards the end
around posting that should hopefully
help you kind of tip the scales back in
your favor or swing the pendulum back in
the right direction if you have been
kind of stagnant or plateaued in your
growth in recent months before we even
get into this three-step formula let me
share with you a little bit of
credibility and background as to who I
am my name is Brock Johnson and I have
been an Instagram coach for about 7 or
eight years now I got my start teaching
people how to Market specifically using
Instagram stories and since then I've
grown my audience to over 700,000
followers on Instagram and we have
coached over 40,000 people through our
insta clubhub where we have an average
growth rate of 16,000 followers per year
to say that another way our average
engaged student Grows by about 16,000
followers per year I tell you that not
to brag boast or gloat but just to give
you the facts and that is what we are
all about the insta clubhub giving you
the facts that actually matter giving
you the strategies that are proven to be
most effective because as you'll hear
today there are really only three steps
to growing on Instagram sure there are a
million different strategies and little
techniques and hacks and things that
might work for a month or two and then
be gone for a month or two simple
doesn't mean easy and so as we go
through today I want you to keep in the
back of your mind that none of this is
going to be overnight none of this is
going to be instantaneous I think we
have a common misconception many of us
who use social media that growth is
supposed to be fast but I heard this
analogy recently and I I love it so I
had to share it in nature we have a term
for things that grow super fast and
uncontrollably and it's called weeds
weeds are often gross or invasive or
dangerous and there's a reason why weeds
are quickly plucked on the other end of
the spectrum though you have something
that takes a really really long time to
grow something like the Redwood forest
in California that took hundreds of
years to grow to the massive size that
it is today and people plan entire
vacations just to go visit those trees
so the next time you're concerned about
not growing fast enough I want you to
remind yourself that you would much
rather be a redwood that took years to
grow than a weed that popped up
overnight so with all that said let's
hop into the three-step formula step
number one and this is in sequential
order this is not just like three things
to do at any random time step number one
is the thing that you need to make sure
that you have down pat first it is your
foundation it is how you're going to
grow and have success long term not just
with a following or a community but
building an actual business or a brand
or if you're a content creator who wants
paid endorsements and sponsorships this
is absolutely step one is to pick your
Niche now here at build your tribe and
within the insta clubhub we teach niche
in two parts part of your Niche is the
Who Who Are You specifically going to be
speaking to on your Instagram who is
your target audience your Target
demographic your target follower and it
is recommendable it is advantageous to
get as specific as possible and it's
recommendable for a few reasons number
one if you're posting for everyone or
you're posting for all women or you're
posting for anyone in the United States
it's such a broad audience that no one's
going to find your account and be like
oh my gosh I love this person this
person was meant for me you're just kind
of bland and basic you don't stand out
you're never going to grow at the same
rate as if you were to Niche down also
another benefit of really getting super
specific with that target audience is
eventually once you get into the
business side of things and you're
creating products and services and
offers and you're selling things to that
audience you don't have to convince them
that your product is right for them they
know that your product is right for them
and they're willing to pay whatever it
is that you set your price point at and
they're not going to argue you they're
not going to ask for refunds you're not
going to have to work really hard to
make a sale because they're going to
know that whatever it is that you have
created was perfect for them because
from the start you knew who they were I
have gone so far with my own Instagram
and and this is what we teach our insta
clubbers as well that you should go so
far as to have One Singular person in
mind when you're creating each of your
posts but before we do we need to get
crystal clear as to the who think about
their age think about their religious
background think about their marital
status do they have kids what is their
health status what are their goals what
are their challenges what are their
struggles the more crystal clear you can
get on that the better and that's just
half of your Niche the other half is the
what so of course what are you going to
be talking to them about it's great to
know okay I'm talking to 35-year-old
moms of two or more children in the
midwest but what are you going to be
talking to them about right what is that
thing that you're going to be posting
about often times this is where people
start when you say Niche I'll ask
someone what's your Niche and they'll
say oh it's Fitness that's a good start
oh my Niche is real estate that's a good
start these things are the first step
but these should not be our last step
when we're niching down so rather than
just sticking with your industry I want
you to get more specific than that I
want you to see if you can Niche down
further and see if there's a specific
area rather than just helping women over
the age of 35 with two or more children
in the midwest with Fitness what if you
were helping them by giving 30 minute or
less atome workouts or loow intensity
gym exercises or an easy way to break
through the weight loss Plateau that
they've hit in recent years when you get
that specific with the problem and
someone clicks on your account they're
like oh my gosh I'm going to follow this
person right away that is the advantage
of having a niche now some common
challenges that I see people run into
within this world of Niche is number one
they're worried about the right Niche
versus the wrong Niche while there are
definitely better and worse niches and
you might call it better or worse for
numerous reasons maybe you want a niche
with more people in it but someone else
might want a niche with less people
maybe you want a niche that has more
spending power more Capital right they
they have more money disposable income
you could say but then there's also the
niche that maybe is underserved and more
deserving so there are ultimately better
and worse niches but I don't want you to
stress out over that ultimately the
great thing about a niche is that you
can change it down the line later on I
don't want to get too far ahead of
myself but we're going to talk about
posting and when I talk about posting
and consistency I think that you should
stick with your Niche for at least 100
days before deciding to change if after
100 days it's just not lighting you up
up it's not making you feel energized
you're not excited to talk about it you
are constantly running out of ideas you
feel like an impostor in this Niche you
feel like oh my gosh no one's listening
to me no one cares I don't really care
that much anymore if after 100 days
you're at that point change pivot you
can Rebrand you can start a new account
you can start over we have plenty of
episodes here on build your tribe about
starting over and whether or not you
should start over on Instagram which by
the way if you're watching this right
now and you are thinking about starting
over like you are changing your Niche
completely and you're like should I
start over or not probably yes that's a
big one if you change from I don't know
giving tips for Bakers to all of a
sudden uh beginner rock climber uh Gear
reviews like completely different niches
you should probably start a new account
but that's neither here nor there and
again we will link up the episode in the
show notes about uh should you start
over or not but the great thing about a
niche is while it is very important and
while it is your foundation to the house
you can pick up and move your house at
any point you can change locations you
can move to a new lot move to a new city
at any time and so the foundation is
absolutely crucial before we move on to
step two but I don't want it to be
something that stresses you out I don't
want it to be something that inhibits
you from ever moving on ultimately just
pick something if you want to narrow it
down to three or four things then throw
a dart against the wall that works too
but ultimately you just have to pick
something and if you do decide to start
over in the future you won't be starting
over from zero because you'll have all
of this knowledge and expertise and
experience that you've gained and you
can apply that to your starting over
account and the last thing that I'll say
about Niche before we move on is your
experience matters a lot more than your
expertise oftentimes people will say
Brock I don't feel credible because I
don't have a degree or I don't feel
qualified or I don't have this expertise
or I don't have these certifications you
don't need any of that you just need
your own experience to tell you about my
own experience when I first got started
as an Instagram coach I mentioned this
earlier my specific what was Instagram
stories marketing so I was helping
people Market their business and grow
their account using Instagram stories I
didn't have even a college degree at
that point I was still in college when I
started that business and I didn't have
a massive following myself I maybe had
20 or 30,000 followers when I got
started as an Instagram coach but what I
did have was experience and this is the
other thing that's really surprising for
a lot of people a lot of my experience
wasn't even on Instagram I had grown my
business initially with Snapchat stories
and so I took what I learned at Snapchat
and from Snapchat stories and applied it
to Instagram stories and that was the
experience that I had when I got started
now over time I've developed my
expertise over time my experience has
grown I've broadened my uh scale right I
have broadened my Niche which is
something that you can do over time but
when you're first getting started I want
you to think about what experiences do
you have what unique problems have you
solved what groups do you feel called to
serve or to help or to create content
for or about and that should hopefully
help inform what your Niche is going to
be so that's step number one step number
two for growing on Instagram let's take
that Niche and actually apply it to
Instagram step number two is optimizing
your Instagram profile and I think often
times within the world of social media
we over complicate things right we're
thinking about algorithms and best
practices and hacks and strategies and
settings and all this stuff when
ultimately let's think about about
social media just like we would the real
world the physical world right and so if
you're building a business or a brand on
social media on Instagram let's think
about how you would build a brand or a
business or a store in the real world
let's talk about that store you need a
sign centered above the store that's
well lit and none of the letters have
have gone out like the lights are still
on uh we need to make sure that there
are things to look at in the store
before the store opens right we can't
say grand opening and everyone comes in
and it's just an room right we need to
have a cash register set up we need to
have the product on display we need to
have the people walking around the store
with the goals or intentions for them
they have to have been trained right
fortunately not all of that is going to
be necessary for starting on Instagram
but the same general principles you want
to have applied so what is that
storefront with the lights turned on
that it makes sense when you drive by it
right there's like a a store in where I
live in Park City Utah that says I love
moo what's I love moo is it like a cow
store is it like a apparel store that
sells cow related merch is it a
milkshake store is it an ice cream shop
like what is I love moo I don't know but
if right next to it there is a place
called The Burger Joint I know that
they're probably selling burgers in
there if there's a place called you know
Bohemian apparel next to it I know
they're selling Bohemian clothing so
step number one within this optimize
your profile step number one the first
step to setting up your Instagram
profile correctly is to Simply pick a
username that is easy to read Andor
understand and if it's a business
Instagram account somehow in the
username it hints out or articulates
your Niche so there's kind of three
different approaches you can take for a
username one is if you're a personal
brand like my Instagram is right if you
check out my Instagram I'm in every
video I'm teaching things relating to
growing on Instagram but it's my
personal brand well then my name is my
personal brand and that is my username
so Brock 11 Johnson is my username if
you have a non-personal brand you have a
business brand then you're probably
going to want to use your business name
as the username for example our insta
clubhub business has an Instagram which
is insta clubhub makes sense now it's
possible that let's say I was getting
started on Instagram today and Brock
Johnson was taken so I could do Brock
johnson. coach Brock johnson. insta
Brock johnson. tips I could do something
like that that includes a keyword or
that includes something relating to my
niche in the username those are the
first two approaches the third approach
is to basically get a little bit more
creative and mix in some keywords into
your username that ultimately will
improve your searchability we'll come
back to this topic of searchability
though but generally speaking you need a
username you don't want it to be too
long and by too long I'm going to say
you know 30 plus characters I don't even
know if you can go that long but you
want to try to make it as short as
possible while not having any ambiguity
you want you know if there's a name for
it to be easily readable you know even
if my name was like Brock Johnson I
would actually probably prefer Brock do
Johnson or Brock Johnson rather than
just having Brock Johnson all as one
word because then it's a little bit
harder to read right and so using a a
period or an underscore is a great way
to break up your name and make it more
readable and also just make sure that
it's available because with Instagram
being around for over a decade now a lot
of usernames are already taken the
second thing to think about is you want
to make sure your storefront looks
visually appealing right like the window
dressing matches what's inside the store
if I walk by I love moo and there's just
like a a cow inside of a heart I don't I
still don't know what that store is
about right but if I walk by I love moo
and it's got like uh a bunch of
different ice cream on the windows or a
bunch of you know photos of ice cream
then I'm like oh okay I love moo is an
ice cream shop the translation of that
to your Instagram is your profile
picture for your profile picture there's
basically two options that I will have
you choose between option number one is
is your company's logo and that is if
you have a business brand now if you are
someone who's deciding between personal
brand versus business brand I can tell
you that generally speaking personal
Brands will grow faster than business
Brands but there's nothing necessarily
wrong with having a business Instagram
account just like we have insta clubhub
and I have Brock 11 Johnson there's
options to have both there's benefits to
both but generally speaking personal
brand a little bit more recommendable
but not a huge deal there if you have a
business brand and you're going to use
your logo just make sure it's a logo
that was formatted to be a profile
picture like Google would never use g o
GLE e as their profile picture right
they use just the little like rainbow G
icon because that is much more
recognizable when it's zoomed out super
duper small and Tiny you can still make
out what it is so if you are going to
use your logo just make sure that you
don't have you know like the tagline in
in size nine font at the bottom or any
extra words sometimes people have like
you know established in 2017 or
Birmingham alab B like all this extra
text try to simplify your logo so it's
really just an icon or something that's
easily recognizable if you are using a
personal brand I would recommend having
your face as the profile picture a
mistake that I see a lot of people
making is they're just simply too far
away from the camera kind of like I am
right now if you're watching this on
YouTube like you can see my whole upper
body up that would be too far zoomed out
your profile picture should be a super
close-up selfie like collar bones or
neck just to slightly above your head
like basically the circle is just
completely filled by your face that way
it stands out when people are scrolling
through Instagram they're seeing these
tiny little itty bitty profile pictures
all day long and so there's a reason
that mine has this big cartoonish grin
and this yellow background it's because
I know that stands out and I know that
grabs attention so an attention grabbing
profile picture is the second step
towards optimizing your profile the
third step towards optimizing your
profile is the biggest mistake people
make when setting up their Instagram
account and it is the name line now most
of you just picked a username and you
had to think really hard about like you
know what's creative what's original
what hasn't already been taken you have
your username and then you get to the
next line that says name and you're like
oh okay I'll just write my first and
last here and you press save but here's
the thing anything that you put on that
name line is a searchable keyword so if
my username said Brock 11 Johnson and my
name said Brock Johnson then the only
way that you could search for and find
me was if you Googled or if you looked
up on Instagram Brock Johnson which is
very very unlikely especially if you're
just getting started especially if
you're just day one starting a brand new
account so instead on your name line
what I recommend doing is your first
name a hyphen and then add some keywords
that are kind of like a title for
yourself or a title for your brand or
business for example on my name line it
says Instagram growth coach now you
notice I didn't put my name on that line
that's not totally necessary a lot of
people do like to include their name on
that line for various reasons but the
essential thing that you need to have on
your name line is a keyword or key words
that describe your account and that
would be searchable key part there is
that they need to be searchable I have
seen people put their their nicknames on
that line like fit Fab funky marketing
Diva that's cute that your friends call
you that or that you came up with that
nickname for yourself but that's not
very searchable so instead we need to
put something that would be searchable
you know marketing expert for Florida
small businesses whatever it may be
searchable keywords go on that line then
when it comes to the actual bio your bio
can be as many lines as you want it to
be but I recommend only having four
lines in your bio and the reason for
that is that if you go more than four
lines Instagram will automatically
truncate it it won't delete it but it
will hide it behind a dot dot dot more
window and so people have to tap on that
to expand the bio and read through the
rest like no one's going to do that the
average person decided to follow you in
3 seconds or less so your bio should be
four lines or less it should be as
concise as possible it should not use
any Insider lingo or any terms or
phrases that your ideal follower would
not already know so don't use any
acronyms or any terms and phrases that
like you and your other experts or your
other colleagues know but your followers
don't use terms in your bio that your
followers already know again your goal
should be to be as concise as possible
so rather than saying something like I
help you get fit and be healthy and lose
weight just pick one of those things
because you don't need all three you
don't need all the synonyms we want to
be as short and concise as possible so
that people can skim our bio as quickly
as possible and understand what it is
that we do and thus increase their
likelihood of deciding to follow us or
not and that's really the nuts and bolts
of setting up your Instagram profile
there are other little things that I
would recommend like make sure that you
do not show your threads badge unless it
is your goal to grow on threads or
actively use threads to promote your
Instagram don't show your threads badge
also turn off category display because
category display counts as one of those
four lines but it's usually something
that's kind of generic and not helpful
like it'll say entrepreneur or Video
Creator it's just not very helpful so
turn off category display but besides
that the big goal is that you want your
bio to be understood or understandable
by a stranger out a glance and now we're
already on to step number three of three
of growing on Instagram and yes like I
said there are a million other little
strategies and techniques and that's
what we do here at build your tribe is
we constantly update you on all of those
little things but part of what we assume
is that you already have step one two
and three down and so we highly
encourage you I highly encourage you
right now to press subscribe if you
haven't already because every single
week we put out new little quick tips
and helpful ideas and strategies and
breakdowns tutorials about how to grow
on Instagram and how to grow on the
other social media networks as well but
the foundation here is Step number one
Niche step number two optimize your
profile and step number three post now
within post there are some common
questions some strategies and some
things that I want to make sure that you
understand and the first of those is
what do you post when I say post what am
I talking about well first and foremost
let me say I'm only referring to feed
posts so feed posts includes carousels
single photos and reals feed post does
not include Instagram stories it does
not include Instagram live and it does
not include direct messages those three
things do not help you grow DMS have a
huge purpose DMS are in fact the most
used area of Instagram Instagram stories
are my bread and butter they're what I
got started with but Instagram stories
and this might be shocking to some
people they do not help you grow on
Instagram Instagram stories only reach
your existing followers Instagram
stories are only shown to the people who
already follow you and so they usually
equate to or account for less than 1% of
growth like it's really hard for someone
who doesn't follow you to find your
stories really the only way is if they
find your account and then they watch
your stories or if someone like sends
them your story but both of those things
are are very very rare so usually the
only thing that's going to help you grow
is a feed post again Carousel photo or
real now which of those three is the
best it depends slightly on what your
goal is but of course you clicked on
this episode because you want to learn
how to grow on Instagram and so in
general the best kind of post for
growing on Instagram is a real and that
is because on average reals get the most
views and reals get the most reach to
nonf followers so reals on average will
get shown to more new people than a
photo or a carousel there are people who
grow on Instagram who grow wildly
successfully who have millions of
followers who have never posted real who
only post photos or who post photos in
carousels or who only post carousels and
that is totally fine it's totally
possible but statistically speaking you
will have the best odds of growing and
you will grow the fastest if your focus
is reals now I say Focus I don't think
that anyone should do 100% of one kind
of content even if I'm working with
someone who has over a million followers
and they have those million followers
from posting almost exclusively Carousel
posts I'm still going to recommend that
they mix in some reels and they mix in
some photos a healthy Instagram strategy
has a balance of all three kinds of feed
posts now what should your reels be
about what should your feed posts be
centered around they should be 100% or
close to 100% related to your Niche if
they are not if you post something that
is not related to your Niche one of two
things can happen and both of them are
not very good things the first thing
that could happen if you post something
that is outside of your Niche is it just
doesn't perform well I'll use myself as
an example occasionally I will post a
snowboarding video or photo of myself
because I love snowboarding and it's
something I'm very passionate about and
I just can't not share it with my
audience sometimes but I know but every
single time I do that it's going to
perform very poorly in fact some of my
worst posts I've ever made in terms of
how they performed were snowboarding
posts posts that I loved posts that were
great posts that if they were posted on
a snowboarding account would have done
great but my followers don't follow me
for snowboarding they follow me for
Instagram tips similarly your followers
follow you for whatever your Niche is so
stick to it with your feed posts now I
mentioned that there's two bad things
that could happen that's the first the
other bad thing that could happen is
that your post actually does well it
goes viral you post a hilarious video of
your dog uh pooping on your toddler and
it goes viral well now guess what now
you have a viral hangover your account
is struggling to grow because Instagram
doesn't know who to show you to because
you just went viral for one thing and
now it's trying to show you to other
people it's confused you've confused the
algorithm you've confused your followers
and you might have even gained hundreds
or thousands of followers who want more
videos of a dog pooping on a toddler and
not whatever it is that you actually
sell or do or post about not whatever
your Niche actually is so 99% of the
time as close to 100% of the time as you
can make it you stick to your Niche with
your feed posts and like I said there
are exceptions sometimes I post about
snowboarding sometimes I post about my
wife I understand there are
anniversaries there are birthdays there
are important dates that you want to
make sure that you acknowledge and post
about but generally speaking keep it to
the niche now when I say keep it to the
niche I just mean that it has to relate
to either the who or the what in some
way preferably your post would relate to
both The Who and the what in every post
but there are going to be some posts
that let's take myself as an example
right I'm posting about how to
organically grow on Instagram for small
business owners sometimes I might post
something that isn't directly about
growing on Instagram but it's still
something that's helpful for a small
business owner sometimes I might post
about something that's how to grow on
Instagram but it's going to apply to a
more General audience or it's going to
apply to content creators rather than
specifically small business owners so
that's what we like to call at build
your tribe in within the insta clubhub
naps naps stands for Niche adjacent
posts and it's okay to take naps from
time to time naps can be very healthy
and helpful just make sure that not
every single one of your posts is a nap
or else there is no niche in the first
place and the final part of my answer to
what do you post is if your goal is
growth the best form of Engagement is a
share according to Instagram CEO and
according to our own research in the
insta clubhub you will reach the most
amount of non-followers if your post is
getting more shares a share also known
as a send is the best form of Engagement
to increase that kind of reach and so
what I'm going to recommend that you do
is create sharew worthy content a lot
easier said than done right obviously
you want more shares create sharew
worthy content I did an entire YouTube
video an entire podcast that I will link
up in the show notes below about sharew
worthy content what the different kinds
of sharew worthy content are examples
and how to create them but generally
speaking that should be your focus
rather than trying to create a super
valuable educational post that everyone
is going to press save on your focus
should be on creating a post that
everyone is going to send to a friend
share to their story send to their group
chat tag somebody below because that is
ultimately how you're going to grow the
fastest another common question that I
hear is how much should you post and I'm
going to answer that without giving you
a number which is unfortunate because I
know you want a number I know you want
me to say you should post twice a day
you should post three times a week
according to Instagram CEO and according
to numerous studies the more you post
the more you grow to say that another
way as you increase your posting
frequency typically we see an increase
of growth rate as well so should you
post once a day sure should you post
three times a day sure should you post
12 times a day sure should you post once
a month sure go for it ultimately what
matters not is the number what matters
is two things number one what matters is
consistency sticking to that number so
whether you post once a month once a day
or once an hour staying consistent with
that number and number two how you find
that number in the first place is asking
yourself the question what can I sustain
whenever people ask me Brock how much
should I post I love to flip that back
on them and ask them the question I
don't know what can you sustain based
off your own goals based off your own
timeline based off your business your
availability the season of life that
you're in and all of these things figure
out what you can sustain maybe you can
sustain one a week maybe you can sustain
One A Day figure out what that number is
and then challenge yourself to do just a
little bit more so if you can
consistently maintain five per week
challenge yourself to increase to seven
a week cuz not to get too philosophical
or preachy on you but in life and on
social media growth happens when we push
ourselves past what we can sustain past
our comfort zone it's just like in the
gym how do you get bigger biceps you do
as many curls as you think can and then
you try to do one more and then you fail
it's called going to failure that's how
you grow your muscles that's how you
grow your followers so I don't want you
to fail on Instagram I don't want you to
get to the point of burning out I don't
want you get to the point of like oh my
gosh I could sustain five but as soon as
I went to six I burnt out I was
overwhelmed all the time I don't want
you to get to that point but I do want
you to implement systems and strategies
hire a team Outsource what you can so
that you can increase your posting
frequency because that is ultimately how
you will increase your growth rate and I
did mention a moment ago 12 posts a day
and I kind of threw it out there as a
random hypothetical and I know that no
one watching this video will post that
frequently but according to our own
studies there are some people who have
had the craziest fastest growth you've
ever heard of we're talking millions of
followers in just a few months and that
is usually achieved by this hyper
extreme consistency now it's not
something I'm going to recommend to you
but I just tell you about it to set the
case in point that it is absolutely true
the more you post the more you grow I
also want to say I'm a big proponent of
the more you post the more you grow
because when it comes to the debate of
quality versus quantity ultimately both
matter ultimately if you are posting
crap if you are posting super lowquality
posts in order to meet your criteria of
frequency that ain't going to work but
when people say that quality should be
your only focus and that that's all you
need to care about is quality I will
often push back by asking them how do we
achieve quality how do we make a good
post and I'm a firm believer that you
make a good post by making a bunch of
really bad posts not because you're
trying to make them bad but because
you're still learning you're still
growing and when you're first getting
started I want to encourage you to rip
that Band-Aid off and just press post
your first 200 posts on Instagram will
not be very good and they won't be that
much better if you spend all your time
stressing out and overthinking and
watching course after course and YouTube
video after YouTube video on how to make
an A+ high quality slam dunk post
instead what I'm going to recommend that
you do is you just post it and then you
learn from it and then you post again
and you learn from it you apply what you
learned you post again and you learn
from it you apply what you learned and
you post again and that is how by the
300th post you're an excellent content
creator who can create high quality
content in a super short amount of time
with minimal amount of effort or budget
because you've put in the work to get
there to say it another way practice
makes progress so the more you post the
more you grow and focusing on quantity
is how you can achieve higher quality
all right so that was how much to post
another really common question is when
should you post and while sometimes
might be better than the others there's
ultimately no Universal best time to
post there's only your best time to post
based off your audience and the only way
to figure that out is by consistently
posting at different times posting at
9:00 in the morning for a week or two
posting at noon for a week or two
posting in the evening for a week or two
and just seeing if there's any sort of
correlation if posts perform better at
certain times of the day eventually
you'll get to the point where you know
that Saturday afternoons are your best
time to post memes and Friday mornings
are your best time to post educational
carousels you'll get to that point
eventually but when you're first getting
started I don't want you to stress out
over the time that you're posting and
then the final question is how do we
post that much how do you post more I
mentioned earlier systems Outsourcing
teams hiring help and all those things
are absolutely helpful but if I can give
you one tip to actually increase your
output without significantly changing
your input and that means any form of
input time resources energy anything
like that is to upcycle your content
upcycling is a term that we use in the
insta clubhub to describe the act of
reposting or recreating something that
you've posted in the past now if you're
starting from zero day one on Instagram
then you're not going to have posts from
the past to pull from and we'll talk
about that in just a second what to do
if that's the case but if you're
watching this and maybe you've been
consistent for a few months then you
missed a few months or maybe you were
trying to grow really hard in 2023 and
then 2024 was just not your year go back
to the past go back to that content that
you have previously posted specifically
the content that has previously done
well and do one of two things either
directly repost it what I mean by that
is literally just post it a second time
find it in your camera roll so you can
post it again or if you don't have it
saved in the first place use a website
like save
instaa to download it once again but
basically the bottom line is just post
the exact same thing same caption same
audio same everything if it worked well
before it likely will work well a second
time and you could also refresh or
recreate it uh so slightly change the
caption maybe re-edit the video maybe
swap out the hook for a different hook
maybe re-record the exact same video
just with your new haircut recreate
things from the past and that will be a
great way for you to create more content
and post more frequently without having
to significantly increase the amount of
work that you have to do in fact this
upcycling strategy is what I do for
about 75% of my posts about three out of
every four posts that you see on my
Instagram are either a direct repost or
a recreation of something I have
previously posted and I'm someone who
like I said earlier has over 700,000
followers on Instagram I get 30 million
plus views every single month on
Instagram and I have never received one
single negative comment about reposting
and that's because most people are
seeing tens of thousands of posts every
single day they don't remember the post
that you made a few months ago and if
they do remember it if they are part of
that Elite 1% who remembers what you
posted 90 plus days ago well then they
probably remember it because it was that
good it was that funny it was that
educational or valuable and so just like
watching your favorite episode of TV for
a second or third time just like
re-watching your favorite movie they
wouldn't mind seeing it again all right
so that is really the one two three of
growing on Instagram the three steps to
growing in 2025 if you are starting a
new Instagram account or you are going
to relaunch here's what I would
recommend doing first take one to two
weeks to work behind the scenes rather
than trying to hit the ground running as
soon as you finish this video I know
you're excited but hold the horses and
instead of trying to immediately launch
your new Instagram account spend a week
or two batching content spend a week or
two just focused on creating content and
not even posting at all yet that way a
week or two from now when you do get
started you could post once a day and
you could post once a day without having
to create content for a week or two
right because you already have all this
stuff ready to go all these posts that
are in the can so to speak so spend a
week or two just creating as much as you
possibly can if you are starting from
zero like it's a brand new Instagram
account I would recommend posting about
12 of those posts before announcing that
the account is open right it's going
back all the way to what we said at the
beginning you want to have some Clos in
the store before the grand opening so if
you are starting a new Instagram account
have some posts there for people to look
at before you announce on you know your
Twitter your Facebook all your other Pro
profiles saying hey new Instagram go
follow me make sure uh that you have
some post for them to look at even if
you are continuing on you know your same
Instagram account and you're just uh
going to be refocused on growing in 2025
I would still recommend taking a week or
two to just batch content that way
moving forward you feel like you're
ahead rather than feeling like you're
constantly on the hamster wheel trying
to play catchup and that's it that is
how you grow on Instagram you get 1%
better with each post you continue to
just press post and learn from each of
those posts that you make you continue
to stay up to dat on the trends the
changes the new hacks that are working
and that are not working on Instagram
but ultimately it's the same one 12
three pick your Niche optimize your
profile and get consistent with your
posting we here at build your tribe and
in the insta clubhub will continue to
help you stay up to date with those
hacks Trends and strategies so that you
can get the most out of the post that
you are making But ultimately if you
take nothing else away from today's
episode I hope it's these three words
just press post thank you so much and as
always happy networking